Update contribution guide (#2130)
scylladb/scylla-operator: docs/source/contributing.md

> # Contributing to Scylla Operator

Reviewer: We should either move it out of the doc tree and make it a standalone file (something like CONTRIBUTING.md at the top level) or add it to the index (it would require a new subtree I suppose, there doesn't seem to be a fitting one atm)

Author: +1, I think we should stick to `CONTRIBUTING.md` in root directory only.

Reviewer 2: I feel the same way. Glad to see this comment. Done.

## Prerequisites

To develop Scylla Operator, ensure your environment has the following items configured:

1. [Go](https://golang.org/dl)
   * Check `go.mod` for minimal version requirement.
2. Git client

> 3. GitHub account

Author: On the second thought, I would drop this one, there's no point explaining such basics.

Reviewer 2: This is done now.

## Prerequisites

To develop on scylla-operator, your environment must have the following:

1. [Go 1.13](https://golang.org/dl/)
    * Make sure [GOPATH](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/SettingGOPATH) is set to `GOPATH=$HOME/go`.
2. [Kustomize v3.1.0](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/tag/v3.1.0)
3. [kubebuilder v2.3.1](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/releases/tag/v2.3.1)

> 4. [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)

Reviewer: some make targets are still using docker and kustomize is still used in some of the scripts,  did you remove these on purpose?

Reviewer 2: I do not understand what is being asked here.

Reviewer: no longer applies

## Initial Setup

### Create a Fork

Follow GitHub documentation about creating a fork: https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo

## Development

To add a feature or to make a bug fix, you will need to create a branch in your fork and then submit a pull request (PR) from the branch.
A subset of useful commands:
* `make build` - build project binaries
* `make test-unit` - run unit tests
* `make update` - run all code generators
* `make verify` - verify if all autogenerated changes are generated.

> Check `make help` for more.

Reviewer 2: I would balance productivity with DRY here. These are very unlikely to change, and if they fall out of date, it's obvious and the `make help` line provides immediate remedy.

As a newcomer to the project I believe that a high-level summary of the most useful make targets _does_ provide value that `make help` does not.

My take is that we keep this as-is.

> Check `make help` for more.

Reviewer: ok

## Coding convention

This outlines guidelines, style suggestions, and tips for writing code throughout the Operator project.
The new code should follow the rules outlined in these:
* [Effective Go](https://go.dev/doc/effective_go)
* [Go Code Review Comments](https://go.dev/wiki/CodeReviewComments)
* [API changes](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md)

> * [API conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md)

Reviewer: It could also include logging convention https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-instrumentation/logging.md but I don't feel strong since it's pretty clear from existing usage

Reviewer 2: I propose that we err on the side of not over-regulating. Such a change is fairly easy to carry-out if we fall out of consistency, so the cost of making a mistake here isn't high.

In case the existing code doesn't follow it, try to be consistent.
Make sure to familiarize yourself with these before preparing a change.

## Enhancement proposals

In case of bigger features or API changes, it's required to prepare an enhancement proposal beforehand as usually these require broader discussions.
For further details, check https://github.com/scylladb/scylla-operator/tree/master/enhancements.

## Submitting a Pull Request

Once you have implemented the feature or bug fix in your branch, you need to open a PR to the upstream repo.

> Before opening the PR ensure you have added unit tests, all e2e's are passing, and your commit history is clean.

Reviewer 3: I think it's sometimes valid to test the e2e in CI as a WIP PR - it may be chalenging to setup a working e2e environment, especially with networking or the serial suite.

### Commit History

> To prepare your branch to open a PR, you will need to have a minimal number of logical commits so we can maintain
> a clean commit history. Most commonly, a PR includes a single commit where all changes are squashed and a separate commit for autogenerated changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maintain a clean commit history, aim for a minimal number of logical commits. Typically, this means a single commit that contains all the changes, with a separate commit for autogenerated parts.
```

> ### Commits and PRs

Reviewer 3: It would be good to mentions the imperative mood of commits aka `if applied this commit will ...`
e..g https://cbea.ms/git-commit/#imperative

Reviewer 2: already covered:

> The sentence should use a verb in its base form to describe the change, e.g. "Add support for XYZ.

Reviewer: Tracked in https://github.com/scylladb/scylla-operator/pull/2130#discussion_r1912892993

> Please make the first line of your commit message, and PR title a summary of the change that a user of Operator would like to read, written in a single sentence.
> Every release note is made out of just these first lines so make it good!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first line of your commit message and PR title should summarize the change in one clear sentence that would be meaningful to a user of the Operator. Every release note is based on these first lines, so make them concise yet informative.
```

> Every release note is made out of just these first lines so make it good!

Reviewer 3: I think release notes take the PR title not first line of the commit

Reviewer: +1

Reviewer 2: reworded to account for this

> If you have more to say about the change, then enter a blank line and carry on the description.
> Remember to say why the change was needed - the commit itself shows what was changed.
> 
> Writing more is better than less. Comparing the behavior before the change to that after the change is beneficial.
> Imagine writing to yourself in 12 months when you've forgotten everything about what you just did, and you need to get up to speed quickly.
> 
> If the change fixes an issue, then write Fixes #1234 in the PR description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, add more details after a blank line. Explain why the change was necessary, not just what was changed. Comparing the behavior before and after the change is especially helpful. Write the message with the mindset that you’ll need to revisit the code in the future.

If your PR fixes an issue, include Fixes #1234 in the description, replacing 1234 with the issue number.
```

Reviewer 2: done

Here is an example of a good commit message and PR title/description:
```

Add new XYZ field to ScyllaCluster CRD.

The new field allows for configuration of ZYX feature of ScyllaDB.
<more details>
API change was discussed in the following enhancement: <link>.

Fixes #1234
```

### Code review

> Check [The Standard of Code Review](https://google.github.io/eng-practices/review/reviewer/standard.html) for guidelines 
> about both doing a peer review for someone, and getting the feedback and reacting to remarks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [The Standard of Code Review](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments) for best practices when conducting peer reviews or responding to feedback.
```

### Submitting

> After getting a review feedback, apply and squash the changes into initial commits, don't add new commits. Your PR should be always in the mergeable state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After addressing the review feedback, squash your changes into the original commits. Avoid adding new commits. Your PR should always be in a mergeable state.
```
